README.md, before:

ltu-ili
=======
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-7-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

The [Simons Collaboration on Learning the Universe](https://www.learning-the-universe.org/) Implicit Likelihood Inference (LtU-ILI) pipeline is a framework for applying simulation-based inference methods to constrain posteriors on cosmological parameters using astronomical survey data. The code is currently built to analyze spectroscopic surveys of the universe's Large-Scale Structure (LSS), such as SDSS-BOSS.

Parts of the ILI pipeline are being developed in forked repositories such as [ili-summarizer](https://github.com/florpi/ili-summarizer).

## Documentation
The documentation for this project can be found [at this link](https://ltu-ili.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

## Installing 
Follow the instructions for installing ltu-ili and running basic examples in [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md).

## Contributing
Before contributing, please familiarize yourself with the contribution workflow described in [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contact
If you have comments, questions, or feedback, please [write us an issue](https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/issues). The current leads of the LtU ILI working group are Benjamin Wandelt (benwandelt@gmail.com) and Matthew Ho (matthew.annam.ho@gmail.com)

## Contributors

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://maho3.github.io/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11132524?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Matt Ho"/><br /><sub><b>Matt Ho</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=maho3" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-maho3" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#example-maho3" title="Examples">💡</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=maho3" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Amaho3" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/florpi"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/15879020?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Carolina Cuesta"/><br /><sub><b>Carolina Cuesta</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=florpi" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-florpi" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#example-florpi" title="Examples">💡</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=florpi" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Aflorpi" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://deaglanbartlett.github.io/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47668431?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Deaglan Bartlett"/><br /><sub><b>Deaglan Bartlett</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=DeaglanBartlett" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-DeaglanBartlett" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#example-DeaglanBartlett" title="Examples">💡</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=DeaglanBartlett" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3ADeaglanBartlett" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/CompiledAtBirth"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47000650?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Nicolas Chartier"/><br /><sub><b>Nicolas Chartier</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#example-CompiledAtBirth" title="Examples">💡</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=CompiledAtBirth" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#research-CompiledAtBirth" title="Research">🔬</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/AsianTaco"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/42298902?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Simon"/><br /><sub><b>Simon</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=AsianTaco" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#example-AsianTaco" title="Examples">💡</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://pablo-lemos.github.io"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/38078898?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Pablo Lemos"/><br /><sub><b>Pablo Lemos</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#design-Pablo-Lemos" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=Pablo-Lemos" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://modichirag.github.io/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/13356766?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Chirag Modi"/><br /><sub><b>Chirag Modi</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#design-modichirag" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=modichirag" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

## Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the Simons Collaboration on "Learning the Universe".

Commit message:

Make jupyter interface (#79)
* first example in jupyter tutorial. Some changes to dataloading/inference/validation to make ipython usage smoother

* adding camels tutorial

* camels tutorial now trains well

* further improvements

* run tutorial jupyter toy examples

* adding references to the jupyter tutorial in the docs

* catching warnings for ease-of-read in the tutorial

* removing auto-device switching of embedding net in sbi implementation, because sbi does it anyway

---------

Co-authored-by: maho3 <matthew.annam.ho@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

ltu-ili
=======
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-7-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

The [Simons Collaboration on Learning the Universe](https://www.learning-the-universe.org/) Implicit Likelihood Inference (LtU-ILI) pipeline is a framework for applying simulation-based inference methods to constrain posteriors on cosmological parameters using astronomical survey data. The code is currently built to analyze spectroscopic surveys of the universe's Large-Scale Structure (LSS), such as SDSS-BOSS.

Parts of the ILI pipeline are being developed in forked repositories such as [ili-summarizer](https://github.com/florpi/ili-summarizer).

## Documentation
The documentation for this project can be found [at this link](https://ltu-ili.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

## Installing 
Follow the instructions for installing ltu-ili and running basic examples in [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md).

## Getting Started
To get started, see examples of writing config-based scripts in [examples/](examples/) or a guide to the jupyter notebook interface in [notebooks/tutorial.ipynb](notebooks/tutorial.ipynb).

## Contributing
Before contributing, please familiarize yourself with the contribution workflow described in [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contact
If you have comments, questions, or feedback, please [write us an issue](https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/issues). The current leads of the LtU ILI working group are Benjamin Wandelt (benwandelt@gmail.com) and Matthew Ho (matthew.annam.ho@gmail.com)

## Contributors

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://maho3.github.io/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11132524?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Matt Ho"/><br /><sub><b>Matt Ho</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=maho3" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-maho3" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#example-maho3" title="Examples">💡</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=maho3" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Amaho3" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/florpi"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/15879020?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Carolina Cuesta"/><br /><sub><b>Carolina Cuesta</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=florpi" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-florpi" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#example-florpi" title="Examples">💡</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=florpi" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Aflorpi" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://deaglanbartlett.github.io/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47668431?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Deaglan Bartlett"/><br /><sub><b>Deaglan Bartlett</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=DeaglanBartlett" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-DeaglanBartlett" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="#example-DeaglanBartlett" title="Examples">💡</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=DeaglanBartlett" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3ADeaglanBartlett" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/CompiledAtBirth"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47000650?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Nicolas Chartier"/><br /><sub><b>Nicolas Chartier</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#example-CompiledAtBirth" title="Examples">💡</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=CompiledAtBirth" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#research-CompiledAtBirth" title="Research">🔬</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/AsianTaco"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/42298902?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Simon"/><br /><sub><b>Simon</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=AsianTaco" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#example-AsianTaco" title="Examples">💡</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://pablo-lemos.github.io"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/38078898?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Pablo Lemos"/><br /><sub><b>Pablo Lemos</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#design-Pablo-Lemos" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=Pablo-Lemos" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://modichirag.github.io/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/13356766?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Chirag Modi"/><br /><sub><b>Chirag Modi</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#design-modichirag" title="Design">🎨</a> <a href="https://github.com/maho3/ltu-ili/commits?author=modichirag" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

## Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the Simons Collaboration on "Learning the Universe".
